---
title: 1 ½ Position
article_name: Article IV
section_number: 2
---

We study 1 ½ position after fourth position, partly because it is easy to find (the hand and thumb shift a half-step up from first position), and partly because we can consider it a "raised first position." This is because it makes it possible to play a major third, and thus to play the major scales of D, A, and E without significantly leaving first position.

The player puts the first finger in place in first position, then goes up a half-step with the thumb and hand so that the first finger is in C on the A-string (enharmonically spelled as B-sharp). This can be referred to as raised first position or as lowered second position. 

{% include illustration.html alt="" img="davidoff-042-01.png" note="needs work" %}

## Exercises in 1 ½ Position – Closed Hand Position

{% include illustration.html alt="" img="davidoff-042-02.png" %}

## Example in Raised First Position

{% include illustration.html alt="" img="davidoff-042-03a.png" %}

{% include illustration.html alt="" img="davidoff-042-03b.png" %}

{% include illustration.html alt="" img="davidoff-043-01.png" %}

## Example in Lowered Second Position

{% include illustration.html alt="" img="davidoff-043-02.png" %}

# Extensions in 1 ½ Position

This is similar to what we do in the first and fourth position. We move the first finger back by a half-step, creating an extension in 1 ½ position—which, in this case, is usually the raised first position. 

## Exercises in 1 ½ Position with Extensions

{% include illustration.html alt="" img="davidoff-044-01.png" %}

## Example in Extended Position

{% include illustration.html alt="" img="davidoff-044-02.png" %}

{% include illustration.html alt="" img="davidoff-045-01.png" %}

Extensions in 1 ½ position make it possible to play the scales of D, A, and E major without the first finger having to change its place in first position: it just moves the thumb up a half-step, if necessary, to facilitate the extension.

{% include illustration.html alt="" img="davidoff-045-02.png" note="needs work" %}

["D-dur" = "D major"]
["Position I ½, gr. Spannung" = "1 ½ position, extended"]
["Position I, kl. Spannung (Daumen rückt einen halben Ton zurück)" = "First position, closed (thumb moves back by a half-step)"]
["Position I ½, gr. Spannung" = "1 ½ position, extended"]
["A-dur" = "A major"]
["Position I ½, gr. Spannung" = "1 ½ position, extended"]
["Position I, kleine Spannung" = "First position, closed"]
[Position I ½, grosse Spannung" = "1 ½ position, extended"]
["E-dur" = "E major"]
