---
title: Connection of Several Notes Within a Bow (Slurs)
article_name: Article X
section_number: 1
section_title: First Position
---

The connection of several notes on a bow, the so-called slur, should not really add anything new to the rules for bowing. Each slur or group of notes with the sign 

means, more or less, a long, held note. All combinations of slurred and unslurred notes fall into the simple bowing patterns that the player will recognize from Article VII. We have illustrated this in the following exercises showing the upper line in small note values.
And yet, the beginner, who can play with a melodious tone in familiar passages, forfeits much of it as soon as he has to perform faster figures. A figure such as this:

requires nothing more from the bow than this: 

In reality, however, the player will make a less-good tone in the first example.
We could explain this—leaving aside for now the changes in tone caused by the pressure of the left-hand fingers on the strings—by stating the fact that in the first figure, the player will be focusing their attention almost exclusively on the left hand at the expense of the right. I have often observed on students that their bow's contact point, bow direction, and ability to regulate cantilena stop working as soon as the left hand has to perform anything fast. The bow usually moves closer to the fingerboard, and because of this the strength of the tone decreases. The direction of the bow also becomes less controlled; often, it moves laterally from the fingerboard to the bridge and vice versa. This creates a number of extraneous noises, such as a hissing sound, which affects the quality of tone not a little. It is therefore not enough just to advise the learner that sound is one of the most difficult tasks of cello playing.


[“Uebungen für gebundene Noten auf einer Saite” = “Exercises in Slurs on One String”]


p. 16

[“Uebungen mid abwechselnd gebundenen und nicht gebundenen Noten” = “Exercises with Alternating Slurred and Separate Bows”]

[“Anmerk: Die kleinen Noten veranschaulichen die Rolle des Bogens” = “Note: the notes in small type indicate the distribution of the bow.”]

p. 17
The following examples are only notated on one string, but the learner should perform them on the other three strings too. 
etc

p. 18
[“1 Beispiele für legato auf einer Saite” = “2 Examples of Slurs on One String”]
[“Begleitung” = “Accompaniment”]


p. 19
[“Uebungen für Saitenübergang beim legato” = “Exercises for String Crossing in Slurs”]
[“(Auszuführen abwechselnd mit halbem und kurzem Striche und zwar in den 3 früher genannten Theilen des Bogens.)” = “(Execute alternately in half bows and short bowstrokes in the three parts of the bow mentioned previously.)”]


[“Uebungen für Saitenübergang beim legato, mit verschiedenen Stricharten” = “Exercises for String Crossings in Slurs, with Different Types of Strokes”]
[“(Auszuführen auch für die Saiten G, D, und C, G, mit Beobachtung der aufgestellten Regeln für die Schnelligkeit beim Führen des Bogens” = “(Can also be played on the G- and D-strings and on the C- and G-strings, following the established rules for bow speed.)”]


[“Uebungen für Saitenübergang bei Verbindungen von gebundenen mit nich gebundenen Noten” = “Exercises for String Crossing in Combinations of Slurred and Separate Bows.”]
[“Auszuführen auch für die Saiten G, D und C, G” = “(Can also be played on the G- and D-strings and on the C- and G-strings.)”]

p. 20

[“Beispiel für legato mit Saitenübergang” = “Example for Slurs in String Crossings”]

[“2 Beispiele für legato in Verbindung mit ungebundenen Noten bei Saitenübergang” = “2 Examples for Connecting Slurs and Separate Bows in String Crossings”

[“Anmerk. Der Spieler notire vor dem Spielen der zwei folgenden Beispiele, den früheren Angaben gemäss, die NB über die Noten, die eine beschlennigte Bogenführung verlangen” = “Note: Before playing these two examples, the player should write “NB” according to the previous instructions on notes that require a faster bow.”]
p. 21
[“Begleitung” = “Accompaniment”]


[“Die C, G, und F-dur Tonleiter mit gebundenen Noten” = “C, G, and F Major Scales in Slurs”]
[“(Zu spielen erst jeden Tact einen Bogen, dann alle 2 Tacte einen Bogen, schliesslich einen Bogen auf 4 Tacte” = “(First, play one bow to a bar, then one bow for two bars, and finally one bow for four bars.)”]


p. 22
Slurs over 3 and 4 Strings
The following groups of notes and slur marks are intended for studying slurring over three and four strings. Exercises (A) and (B), notated for the A-, D-, and G-strings, should be played in a corresponding manner on the D-, G-, and C-strings. The exercises with doubled numbers indicate that these bowings should be practiced alternately on down- and up-bows.
The inconvenience mentioned in Article VIII occurs here to an even greater extent in string crossings over 3 and 4 strings. There are types of bowstrokes that cannot be executed on the down-bow. Others cannot be executed on an up-bow, especially at a fast speed (for example, figure 5 of exercise A on a down-bow).
[“Auf 3 Saiten” = “On 3 Strings”; “Auf 4 Saiten” = “On 4 Strings”]
[“Uebungen” = “Exercises”]
[“Im 4/4 Tact” = “In common time”]
[“Im 3/4 Tact” = “In triple time”]
[“Strichart” = “Bowstroke”]

p. 23
[“Beispiel für gebundene Noten auf 3 Saiten” = “Example of Slurred Notes over 3 Strings”

p. 24
